---
layout: post
title:  "Data Science: roles and skills"
date:   2020-01-05 00:00:00 +0300
categories: 
---
There is a peculiar situation with Data Science process standards.

DS is expensive. Also, it is very fiddly, as there is discrepancy between perception on what AI does from people
outside the field and what ML can actually do.

Given all this, one may wonder whether there are standards that streamline DS processes to make them more efficient,
and to ensure that output is consistent and matches expectations. There are a bunch of standards:   

- CRISP DM - a quite deep and thorough standard that covers most of the DS Process ground.
It focuses on the project lifecycle and artifacts. It is often referred as "the" DS Process standard. However, it has 
one flaw. It twenty-years old, and some of its points are obsolete. 

- SEMMA - SAP's standard on how to do DS. It is not as thorough as CRISP DM, and covers only modelling part.

- TDSP - Microsoft's take on DS Processes. It is a decent standard; however, it is not as concise and precise as CRISP DM.
It feels like iterative nature of DS projects is missing from this standard, and some fields are not covered well
(deploying, for instance).

You can see that CRIPS DM is the one that covers the most, but it is quite dated. It even has "data mining" in its name!
I haven't heard this term for solid five years.

Speaking of terminology. I was invited to give a talk on Machine Learning track of DevFest, Google's conference for 
developers. I decided to talk about terminology, specifically - from roles, position and skills.

I've scrolled through Amazon's, Facebook's and Microsoft's DS job listings to extract keywords, and check how are they
used in context of job description.

It seems that most of people already agreed on what. Interestingly enough, "Data scientist" is an exception from that.
This role may mean virtually anything from "writing formulas for Bayesian inference" to "writing SQL queries and giving them 
to engineers to deploy". Thus, I strongly discourage the use of this term. Instead, we may use one of the following:

- Machine Learning Engineer - training and deploying models

- Data Engineer - data storages, pipelines and ETL

- Data Analyst - exploratory data analysis

